hello film seekers on this film
explained we are looking at artificial
intelligence
also called ai it is an american science
fiction drama film directed by steven
spielberg
released in 2001. it is about a highly
advanced robotic boy who has real
emotions longing to become a real human
so that he can regain the love of his
human mother the story begins in the
22nd century where the ice caps had
melted from global warming
causing a rise in sea level and the
oceans had drowned the cities along all
the shorelines of the world
cities like amsterdam venice new york
lost forever
and causing the world's population to
reduce significantly
it is also the time when humans had
created intelligent robots
who did not consume resources beyond
those of their first manufacture were
very essential in the economy of the
society
we see professor hobby who shows a robot
called mecca
which looks exactly like human and acts
like human also performed tasks which
were difficult for humans
they were serving the human race it can
perform complex thoughts but lacked
emotions
so he proposes that we build a robot
child which has emotion
and it could genuinely love the parents
it imprints on with a love that never
ends
love would be the key by which they
acquire subconsciousness
it would have self-motivated reasoning
and dream he is asked
the real question is can you get a human
love them back he says ours will be a
perfect child
always loving never ill never change
with all the childless couple yearning
in vain
our new mecca will open up a new market
and fill a great human need
20 months have passed we see a man named
henry who works for that same company
called cybertronics
his wife's name is monica their son
martin has a rare disease
and is kept in suspended animation which
is meant to slow down the body function
to avoid death
but is still in that chamber for five
years it's like a state of coma
he is in deep sleep on the other hand
professor hobby with his team has
created a prototype of mecca child
and named it david his men tell him from
the screening process based on
employment record
quality of lifestyle loyalty to the firm
in this individual's case
his family tragedy may qualify him above
the rest
hobby talks to martin and gives him
david he brings him home
but his wife monica doesn't want a robot
to take their child's place
so she doesn't accept david martin tells
him that it's not too late
i can return him the next morning but we
have to try it she calms down
amazed to see how real he looks he then
tells her the faith the company has
placed on us is extraordinary
there are few procedures to follow if
you decide to keep david
if you keep him an imprinting protocol
consisting of seven
words which needs to be spoken to david
in a predefined order
for our own protection this imprinting
is irreversible
his love would be sealed and we'd be
part of him forever because of this
after imprinting no mecha child can be
resold
if a parent decides not to keep it they
must return it to cybertronics for
destruction
then both sign the agreement then tells
her not to imprint until you're entirely
sure
she was not sure in the first place but
lets him stay
initially she doesn't like him and keep
away from him but as times goes on
her attachment towards him keeps on
increasing she starts to see her son
in him and one day she finally says
those words which activates his
imprinting protocol
causing him to have an enduring
childlike love for her as she completes
those words
david who used to call her by name now
starts to call her mom
and it feels just like a human no way
anyone could say he is a robot by
looking at him
and he hugs her they both are happy as
if her son has come back
david too loves her he asks if she will
die she tells him
yes one day i will i will be alone he
says
asking how long you will live she tells
him for 50 years
he tells her i love you i hope you never
die
never she gets emotional and her husband
calls her telling they are unreasonably
late
as he was waiting for her to go out
before she leaves she gives david a toy
telling it belong to martin her son it
is a robotic teddy bear
named teddy she tells them to take good
care of each other
she leaves asking sorry for taking so
long meanwhile they become good friends
in few days she gets a call from her
husband who tells her that their son has
recovered and is bought home
we see he's a brat who doesn't even
handle his toys gently
he tells david so you are the new super
toy now what good stuff can you do
can you like walk on the ceiling or the
wall anti-gravity
like float fly david asks if he can
martin replies no because i'm real
asking him to stand
he sees they made david taller than him
and also he just looks like ordinary kid
instead of being cute then asks him
when's your birthday
i never had a birthday he says he asks
him when was he first built
he says he don't remember the first
thing he remembers is a bird
he asks if he can draw it he says yes
and draws it
martin tells him it looks like a peacock
can you say peacock
he says it can you say p he says p
can you say it two times fast the scene
switches to a later time
martin asks monica to read this story to
us david's going to love it
she recites it it was fairy tale about a
pinocchio
and how a fairy granted his wish to
become real and we see david actually
believing the fairy tale is true
next day as they all were having food
david acts as if he is eating and martin
starts to tease him
making him realize he cannot eat due to
which david starts to eat it
but they try to stop him he stops when
his system breaks due to the food he ate
everyone disgusted to see his face he is
repaired
as they clean his insides they tell him
you made a mess of yourself
monica gets worried and david tells her
it's okay mommy
it doesn't hurt realizing that she just
leaves him there and goes out
then comes back and holds his hand back
again seeing which
martin gets jealous so when he comes
back he asks david to do a special
mission for him
if he does it then he will tell mom that
he loves david then mom will love you
he asks what it is he says you have to
promise and then i'll tell
you but david tells him you have to tell
me and then i'll promise
he tells him i want a lock of mom's hair
i will share it with you
and if you had it and wore it she might
love you even more like the princess in
the movie we saw
when she had the prince's hair in her
necklace thing he loved her
david tells him we could ask her for
which martin says no
it has to be a secret mission and tells
him to sneak into mom's bedroom in the
middle of the night
and chop it off david tells i can't i'm
not allowed but martin
tells him you promised you said tell me
and then i'll promise
so he sneaks into her room with a
scissor gets close and as he cuts the
hair
she turns and opens her eyes too close
to injure her eye
but still he manages to cut a piece of
her hair it was seen by henry
he gets angry while shaking him asks why
he did that
she stops him saying you will break him
he stops and david tells him
he wanted mom to love him more her hair
falls down and gets picked up by teddy
the next day there's a pool party henry
thinks it was very dangerous for him to
hold a weapon and do that
monica tells him that it's normal for
kids to feel jealous and competitive
he was playing a game he made a mistake
he's practically human
he asks her how is he worth the risk to
you to our family
but she won't let him take david back
because he will be destroyed if we
return him
he tells her if he was created for love
then we can assume he can hate
and if pushed to those extremes what is
he capable of
she leaves without saying anything on
the other hand david wishes him happy
birthday
telling he made this gift for him
martin's friend intervene
asking if he is his brother he says no
and his friend realizes he's a mecca
david asks what is mecca for which he
tells him we are organic in your
mechanical
and starts to tease him by saying it
repeatedly martin stops him
then they all start touching him seeing
he feels so real
he wonders if david has dos which means
damage avoidance system
so he takes a knife and asks to tell
when he feels it as the knife pierce him
he gets scared goes behind martin asking
to keep him safe
in that moment they both fall in the
pool and david doesn't let martin go
just telling him to keep him safe martin
isn't able to get out and starts to
suffocate but he is rescued before it's
too late and is saved
after this incident they decide to
return david back to the company
so monica tells him we both will go for
a drive tomorrow
he asks to let teddy to come with them
she agrees and he gets very happy
and thanks her as she was heading to
return david back to the company
she changes her mind since he would be
destroyed if they return him and she
can't see that happening she stops and
takes him to a forest
he thinks this is picnic she tells him
that she has to leave him here as he
gets to know she won't be coming back
and the fact that he has to be alone now
he starts crying like kids
pleading her not to leave as she tries
to leave he asks her if he becomes real
just the way pinocchio became real can
he come home
she tells him it's just a story they are
not real she hands him some money and
tells him not to get that way
or they will destroy you don't let
anyone catch you and stay away from
where there are lots of people
stay away from all people only others
like him only mecca are safe
then pushes him feels sorry for not
telling him about the world
and leaves on the other hand we see a
lover robot named joe
the girl with whom he had to make love
on this day was murdered by her ex
he knows he is in a big trouble so he
escapes and now he has to hide from
people
meanwhile david keeps walking with teddy
telling he will find the blue fairy from
the adventures of pinocchio
there must be someone who knows where
she lives just the way she made
pinocchio into a real human
she can make him real that is his
motivation and he keeps going
and finds obsolete meccas which are not
used anymore
collecting their missing parts from the
scrap dumped by humans
he keeps looking at them then a group
called flesh flare
come to capture them david is told about
this by a mecca near him
they capture and destroy them on stage
actually in these times there are some
groups who oppose robots and destroy any
unlicensed mecca for entertainment
they all start running but are
surrounded even on land and soon they
are all captured
teddy was outside the net but held by
david soon he breaks loose
but follows to where david was taken he
is caught by a worker there
and sent to lost and found we see a
mecca being put inside a cannon and shot
towards a propeller
which rips him into pieces and david
seeing this gets afraid
moves back and holds joe meanwhile teddy
gets out of the box
and goes towards david as he reaches the
cage he gets grabbed by a girl
teddy and david say hello to each other
and the girl sees him
and thinks he is real kid so she goes to
her dad who works there
and tells him there is a boy in the cage
they find him in through the cameras
the meccas here are kind to each other
and happily accept everything that is
being done to them
mike reaches there to check if he is a
machine he discovers he is a machine
david says i'm a boy and feels it's
impossible to see a machine look so real
a nanny robot has taken who was very
kind to him at the time they were
captured
she tells him goodbye as she leaves mike
says that no one builds children
no one ever has what would be the point
his colleague
johnson saying it could be a custom job
a lot of work has gone into him
he tells david that he is one of a kind
who made you he tells his mom made him
he is asked who is your maker and calls
out some company names but he just says
monica is my mommy
they leave to have a talk meanwhile he
sees that robot being melted with acid
mike tells him not to waste something
this original the other guy tells him
originality without purpose is useless
gives him some money and takes him out
onto the stage david holds joe's hand
tightly
and he too is pulled with him takes a
mic and then introduces david to
everyone
saying it as a living doll we all know
he was made to steal our hearts
to replace our child and it's the latest
of their insults to human dignity
their silence and he tells them to not
to be fooled by the artistry of this
creation
no doubt there was talent in its
crafting yet with the first strike of
acid
you will see the big light come apart
before your very eyes
as a drop falls david in fear starts to
say not to burn him
he just acts completely like a real kid
telling not to burn repeatedly
a woman stands and tells him mecca don't
plead for their lives
he tells them he is trying to imitate
our emotions but everyone start to throw
stuff at him and revolt
david and joe are freed and they escape
on the other hand
we see professor hobby's office and it
turns out that he had a son named david
and he made the mecca david look exactly
as his kid he is worried
and his team arrived telling him that
they found him in the flesh fair
he is alive and in one piece hobby is
very happy to hear it
meanwhile the three walk into woods and
david tells joe that he wants to find
blue fairy
who will make me a real boy and then i
can go back home and mom will love me
joe asks if the blue fairy is a mecca
man or woman
he tells woman and joe tells him he know
all about woman
about all that there is to know no two
are ever alike and after they meet him
they are never the same
he takes him to a city where he meets
him to dr know
who is a holographic search engine ask
any question and he will answer
he's similar to google but to question
him they have to pay fee
he gives everything he got after few
failed attempts
he asks how can blue fairy make a robot
into real boy
the system glitches then an answer read
out from a book written by professor
allen hobby and how can a robot become
human he asks how to find blue fairy it
mentions you can find her at the end of
the world
joe tells him that many of mecca have
gone to the end of the world
never to come back that is why they call
it end of the world
location is manhattan he tries to stop
him saying it could be a trap set for us
asks to stay with him but david doesn't
listen and leaves
outside the police capture joe and david
finds an advanced helicopter
as he tries to use it joe escapes by the
disturbance he caused
and escape with david they reach
manhattan they get into a building and
starts to search for her
he finds his replica and seeing this he
gets angry that he is not unique
and saying you can't have her and i'm
david he destroys him
joe leaves and by the noise hobby comes
in
stops him saying yes you are david and i
was waiting for you
he asks if blue fairy's here too because
she will make me a real boy
he tells you're a real boy as real as
i've ever made which makes me your blue
fairy
he disagrees dr noah told me she would
be here he tells him that is what it
needed to know
to get you to come here and it was the
only time we intervened
and the only help we gave him so you
could find your way home and tell you
robots didn't dream robots didn't desire
unless we told them what to want and you
have no idea what a success story you
have become
you found a fairy tale and inspired by
love fueled by desire
you set out to make her real the blue
fairy is a human flaw
to wish for things that don't exist or
the greatest single human gift
the ability to chase down our dream and
that is something no machine has ever
done until you
but david thought he was one of a kind
he tells him my son was one of a kind
you are the first of a kind david finds
it hard to process
he leaves him and goes to call his team
meanwhile david finds several copies of
himself
he used to think he is unique but seeing
this he loses all hopes
and falls from the edge which is seen by
joe he is dragged with the current
and he sees something and tries to go
towards it but is pulled out by joe
he tells him he saw it the place where
she lives the blue fairy is down there
the police managed to track joe with the
help of the chain he's wearing
they pull him with magnets but before he
gets pulled he tells him not to forget
him when he becomes a real boy
and sets the device to go to submarine
mode and gets pulled away
david along with teddy reached a blue
fairy which is actually her statue
and this place used to be an amusement
park before it got submerged
and a giant wheel ride falls on the
submarine and he gets stuck
but is still able to see her he thinks
she is real and asks her
please make me into a real boy and he
keeps saying it until his battery dies
two thousand years passes by ice age had
started
and the humans were extinct and now
there are some advanced robots
they find the place where david was
there for two thousand years
they waved their hands which gives him
power and wakes him up
after coming out of the ship and goes
towards blue fairy
these mecca which look like aliens now
called specialists start to talk to
themselves in their own language that
this machine was trapped here before the
freezing
which means he knew living people
meaning that these robots have never
seen a real human
are interested to learn about them as he
touches the statue
it cracks and breaks and only after then
he starts to look at his surroundings
they walk towards him and read all his
memories and by touching each other they
all share each other his memories
next we see david he finds himself in a
place which looks almost like his home
he tries to search for mom but finds the
blue fairy
all this was created by the specialists
to best communicate with him and fulfill
his wish
he wishes her that he wants to be a real
boy she tells him she cannot make him a
real boy
and tells him the truth that two
thousand years have passed and she is no
longer living
we can bring back other people from your
time whose dna we have
teddy still has monica's hairs which
david had cut and they agree
later one of the specialists comes to
him and tells him that they can bring
her back along with her memory but we
could bring her back only once
and she would live for only one day as
soon as she sleeps she dies
when she becomes unconscious she will
vanish out of existence forever
and tells him we only want you to be
happy and in an instance it turns to a
new morning
and send him to her he's happy to meet
her and she is too
they enjoy this they do the fullest they
play and celebrate
it was the happiest day of his life
there was no henry
no martin only david and her and he
doesn't let her know what is happening
and at night when she goes to sleep
she tells him that she always loved him
and he too sleeps peacefully with her
and for the first time goes to the place
where dreams are born
since you watched till the end you might
like similar content
so do consider subscribing and turn on
the bell to never miss out my videos
and thanks for watching